Well, the tape has just stopped. We'll turn it
over. And I was asking about the changes that
occurred from the close of the Depression as it
came to a close, giving way to World War II and these
increasing demands and the incentive for all-out
production, prices strengthening.
I wasn't conscious of when that happened.
But there wasn't a particular point in time when
they said, well, look, we've got the depression
whipped. We've got a new problem here of
increasing production. No, we didn't have it that
way. We just eased into the... For some of us who, I
was a student in college during those periods, and
now I look back on it, and we sometimes get the
perspective that up to a certain time they're
addressing this problem, and suddenly they got
that solved, they got a whole new problem. But
you're saying that when you're out there on the
farm and working with the farmers, the change
wasn't all that great. You know, farmers don't
adjust so quickly. Yes.
They learn how to do things,
and they go right on doing them, even in times when
things change. Yes. And it takes a mile for them to
catch up with the change. And I think that's true of
all farmers. Well, it's true of most of us. I find
myself having a hard time adjusting my teaching
program to the computer. I'm glad I don't have your
problem. But I see you've got your electronic hand
calculator there that you operate. I don't have
the controls there. Oh, that controls. I thought
maybe you balanced your checkbook with that. Oh,
no. I see. I don't have enough money to worry about.
Well, actually, I don't either. I find that the
less money I have, the more I have to worry about it
and the more carefully I have to plan. Let me ask you
a question or two, though, about the kind of
adjustments that have taken place. You
were involved with research when irrigation came
into the high plains, weren't you? No. How did that
all take place? Was it very rapidly? I
wish I could get an answer to that first.
Relatively so. It came quite rapidly along toward
the close of the 1930s and 40s? Late 30s, 1940s.
That had a tremendous impact on that part of the
state, didn't it? Increased their worries.
increased their worries, their costs. They lost a
lot of the flexibility they used to have. Land
prices rose substantially. One
set of troubles to another. Their type of farming
changed too, didn't it, some?
Well, they're still growing cotton. That was dry
land cotton before, and they chained over it. Were
they growing corn before? No. So corn came in with
that, didn't it? And then their sorghum
production increased very rapidly, very
substantially. And then that gave rise to the
cattle feeding. See, it didn't take much water,
sorghum and corn.
The cattle feeding then soon followed after
irrigation, didn't it? Yeah, I wasn't conscious
of the cattle feeding
until the 1940s. Then there was the biggest,
probably the biggest area of transition was in
East Texas, wasn't it? What was farming like in
East Texas when you came down here? Well, it was all
in little farms. 10,
15 acres of cotton. I see. And these were not only on
the riverbeds, but everywhere? What about on this
land around College Station and between here and
Huntsville? Would much of that land be farmed in
small farms, or was that cultivated?
When you talk about East Texas, I don't include
that. You go further east, yes. Trinity. On the
Trinity River, up in that way.
Well, in what I call East Texas, farming went out
completely. Yes. A little 10, 15 acres of cotton.
about the same amount of corn, and a lot of little
farmers, too.
Well, the whole thing went out. Yes. Were these
primarily these small operations, were they
tenant farmers for the most part? Sharecroppers?
Well, it wasn't up there to share. I see. I see.
I
see. Did, in that, you made a study of East Texas,
didn't you? Along in the very early late 20s or
early 30s? Early 30s. In the early 30s. That's the
first area that we studied when I came to Texas. I
see. What was your conclusion? Do you recall what
your conclusions were about cotton farming then,
its future?
That
was an important cotton producing area of the
state then, was it? Yes.
First one and then another one. give up farming.
And that land would be,
I always thought of Houston people buying the land
and taking it out of farming. It's
a fairly gradual process. It's either farms They
were different ages, and those farmers had to go
out of business or die off. Yeah. And put a piece of
land
on the operator, farming it. Nobody else wanted
it. Nobody would take it on to grow cotton. To grow
cotton, yeah. So the gins had a real rough time
then. Oh, yeah. I don't suppose there's any gins in
East Texas. Probably not. But during that time of
transition, the cotton industry, as I recall,
that is my recollection of the cotton industry, is
that it was a very strong, outspoken industry.
They were highly organized at the industry level.
The gins, the ginners, the marketers, did they How
did they react to your studies that says cotton
can't survive in this area? I don't remember any
trouble with those people. You didn't have any
problems with them? No.
I guess I was fortunate in that I had Bill Morgan.
Yes. And he was in good with the extension service,
and particularly with Williams.
And I think Bill, for a while, was in and he said in
the extension service.
But
as I Somehow I've had the impression that when your
studies first predicted that along about the end
of the 30s that cotton was going to be going out,
that there
were some people from the in the cotton industry
that might have given you guys a pretty bad time and
wanted your research stopped. If it was, I wasn't
aware of it. I see. And this
Bill Morgan. Yes. He stood in especially well with
the director of the extension service. And when he
said anything, that was it. Mm-hmm. He and I worked
very closely. Yes.
So if you really didn't experience, so far as you
were concerned, as a researcher, you didn't have
any spokesman, any opposition out there coming to
the administration and say, look, we think you
ought to get Bonnen off of this cotton research in
East Texas. No. Uh-huh. See, but at the same time,
Bill Morgan was in the Extension Service. Uh-huh.
Well,
that's interesting. Sometimes, you know, when
what you're saying, when your research points out
some changes that are coming about, those people
who have something to lose from those changes get
pretty vocal and try to bring pressure to bear. You
didn't experience that kind of influence. Big
losers were the Jenners and people like that. Yes,
the cotton merchants. And
they were sort of swept out of it. Yes. But they
didn't influence, they didn't try to slow down
that process by having your... I wasn't conscious
of it, I'll say it. By having your stuff stopped.
This area of adjustment has been a constant one for
Texas, hasn't it? Oh, yeah. Probably more so than
most other areas.
Yeah. East Texas, south Texas. Yes.
Then adjusting to water up in the panhandle. Yeah.
And then adjusting... As water's getting used up,
they've got to adjust back now. There's another
big adjustment that's coming. I don't know
whether they can make that adjustment or not. Yes.
Did you know Frank Hughes? Did you work with Frank
Hughes quite a bit? Frank was with USDA when I came
here. I had always had the feeling that if I could
just tap Frank's mind and the recesses of his
understanding, I could probably learn more about
the water supplies and how it was used in the
Panhandle, Texas, than just about any other
source of information.
You could get a good deal. Yes. Unfortunately, I
never did get it. I went to him just at the time when
he was retiring and with a series of questions and
said, is there any way that we could get you to write
a manuscript covering your research up here. And
somehow Frank had been offended either by
university administration or by USDA.
And he says, I've got only one thing in my mind, and
that is to quit and never get involved again.
They've got their last word out of me. So we didn't
quite get him to get down all that he had learned.
Right. Yeah.
Well, Mr. Bonin. I think people in research
tend to get it a little better than they do in the
extension of life.
I
guess the extension serves to deal with more
individuals. I've never been conscious of the
much difference, the difference of opinion among
the surgery people.
Research people don't deal with as many
individuals as the extension people do. Yes. And
in research, you're not always needing to sell
yourself as you sell your message. No. As they are
in extension. And maybe that's one reason. Here it
is. You can either take it or leave it. I feel that
way. Yes. Yes, I think so. You've had a very
fruitful career, Mr. Bonin. Very productive. You
were part of a small research group that was
probably unique in history. I have reviewed that
period when there was you Of course, under Mr.
Gabbard, Paulson, just the three of you there for a
while, and they comprised most of that research
group. Yet, your productivity in terms of
publications is phenomenal.
Not only were they the typical bulletins, but you
had a large number of publications in referee
journals.
I believe on that the number of referee journals
that were put out by your group
was
per say over a decade was almost as large as it was
during the decade, say, of the 50s,
when the staff was much, much larger, say, five or
six times larger. Perhaps it was because you were
focused so sharply on the research problems and
not diverted Maybe, I don't know. Perhaps it was
just the unique individuals that were there. Mr.
Gabbard apparently was a good researcher.
Paulson surely was. Very productive, wasn't he?
Paulson was an individual that you had to know to
appreciate.
I don't know whether you've ever seen them enough
in the old experiments, the main experiment
station building. We had
room size safes that you could lock and they had
metal shelves all around the sides and he and I
shared one of those. I see. And before things had
gotten Not along too far. He had all these shelves
covered
with reports and so on. And I had one little shelf
there.
He just kept moving around with one shelf and
another.
It was safe. He pulled a lot of material.
He ran in trouble.
But he collected all kinds of stuff that he never
used. Yes. He'd just keep putting it on the shelves
and leaving it there. I wonder if that isn't true of
marketing people generally. Maybe, I don't know.
I've never made a study of that. I haven't either,
but I've, of the most eclectic people in our
profession that I've got to know who gather great
volumes. Many of them are marketing, involved in
marketing, and maybe that's... There's just a lot
of relevant data and arguments that they think
they're going to have to have reference to. Well,
Mr. Bonin, I've taken... an hour and a half of your
time here and it's been very rewarding
you look back on on your profession do you have any
any recollections or any feelings about how this
profession has changed this is going to be the 75th
we are going to be entering the 75th year since the
since the Association began professionally.
It's expanded a great deal, but how else? Do you see
some ways, do you recall ways, or have some sense of
ways in which it has changed?
Not having thought much about those things.
There's a heck of a lot more people working there.
Yes. It has become far more diverse. There are lots
of sub-disciplines now, whereas when you began,
there was marketing and farm management, and then
general policy,
finance. Your son, Jim, has distinguished
himself notably in the profession, primarily in
the area of policy, and quite clearly, policy has
been important from the beginning. But there are
now many other sub-disciplines.
It's become more quantitative, I guess. Yeah, I
think so. You began.
It's become far more quantitative since I began. I
finished my Ph.D. in 1954, and I'm glad I don't have
to pass the exams that these students today have to
take. So it's changing. Certainly is.
If you come across any items, pictures, or
memorabilia that you think would be of interest to
our profession, why, let us know about them. I
think I have a picture of the department, taken of
the department.